1. सेक्शन फॉरमेशन कितने प्रकार के होते हैं ?
उत्तर :- (b) 6 प्रकार के

2. दूरी अनुमान लगाने के कितने तरीके हैं ?
उत्तर :- (d) 6 तरीके

3. जमीन और हमारे लाभ के लिए हथियार का उपयोग करने की कौन सी कला है ?
उत्तर :- (c) Field Craft

4. फोरग्राउंड कितने गज की दूरी पर है ?
उत्तर :- (a) 300 गज

5. जब पहाड़ी की तलाश होती है, तो दूरी ………. होती है ?
उत्तर :- (b) अनुमान से ज्यादा

6. खुली हथेली के साथ कोण कितना डिग्री होता है ?
उत्तर :- (d) 19 डिग्री

7. बंद मुट्ठी के साथ कोण कितना डिग्री होता है ?
– (a) 8 डिग्री

8. आड़ कितने प्रकार की होती है ?
उत्तर :- (c) 2 प्रकार की

9. चालों को कितने भागों में बांटा जा सकता है ?
उत्तर :- (d) 2 भागों में

10. केमोफ्लेज ऐसी कला है, जिसका इस्तेमाल कर …….…. हासिल किया जाता है ?
उत्तर :- (b) कंसीलमेंट

11. कितने गज पर मनुष्य का सिर एक बिंदु की तरह प्रतीत होता है ?
उत्तर :- (a) 600 गज

12. टारगेट दिखाने के लिए किस हाथ का इस्तेमाल डिग्री बताने के लिए करते हैं ?
उत्तर :- (b) बाएं हाथ का

13. जमीन कितने प्रकार की होती है ?
उत्तर – (c) 6 प्रकार की

14. हमेशा आड़ के ……….. से देखे, ना कि इसके ऊपर से ? 
उत्तर :- (a) पीछे से

15. भूमि और शस्त्र को अपनी सुविधानुसार प्रयोग करने की कला …… कहलाती है ?
उत्तर :- (c) Field Craft 

16. पैदल सेना की मूल रणनीति है ……….. ? 
उत्तर :- (b) Fire and Move 

17. कुच के समय कौन सेक्शन की आंख और कान समझे जाते हैं ? 
उत्तर :- (d) Scout

18. ब्रीकेटिंग ……….. की विधि है ? 
उत्तर :- (a) दूरी अनुमान लगाने की

19. आड़ के दो प्रकार ……….. और ……….. है ? 
उत्तर :- (c) नजर से आड़ और फायर से आड़

20. स्काउट सेक्शन के ……….. और ……….. होते हैं ? 
उत्तर :- (d) आंख और कान

21. पेट्रोलिंग के कितने चरण होते हैं ? 
उत्तर :- (b) 2

22. सेक्शन के आगे चलने वाले जवानों को क्या कहते हैं ? 
उत्तर :- (a) स्काउट

23. हाथ का खुला पंजा कितने डिग्री को अंकित करता है ? 
उत्तर :- (a) 19°

24. दूरी मापने की कितनी विधियां हैं ?
उत्तर :- (d) 6

25. फायर कंट्रोल ऑर्डर कितने प्रकार के होते हैं ?
उत्तर – (a) 4 प्रकार का

26. अंबुश कितने प्रकार के होते हैं ?
उत्तर :- (c) 2 प्रकार का

27. सेक्शन फॉर्मेशन कितने प्रकार के होते हैं ?
उत्तर :- (b) 6 प्रकार का

28. फायर आर्डर कितने प्रकार के होते हैं ?

(a) 4 प्रकार का

(b) 3 प्रकार का

(c) 6 प्रकार का

(d) 2 प्रकार का

उत्तर :- (d) 2 प्रकार का

29. हाथ की मदद से ………… डिग्री पढ़ सकते हैं ?
उत्तर :- (a) 19°

30. दिखाई के तरीके से कितनी दूरी तक का अंदाजा लगा सकते हैं ?
उत्तर :- (c) 600 गज

31. फायर ऑर्डर देने की तरकीब क्या होती है ?
उत्तर :- (b) GRIT

32. आड़ के प्रकार क्या है ?  
उत्तर :- (c) 2 प्रकार का

33. फील्ड सिग्नल के कितने तरीके हैं ?
उत्तर :- (d) 3 तरीके

34. जमीन जो देखने वाले की नजर से छिपी हो क्या कहआती है ? 
उत्तर :- (b) Dead Ground

35. पेट्रोल ……….. प्रकार के होते हैं ? ( नाम लिखिए )
उत्तर :- (d) 2 प्रकार के ( रेकी और प्रोटेक्टिव ) 

36. प्लाटून फार्मेशन कितने प्रकार का होते हैं ? 
– (b) 3 प्रकार के  

37. लक्ष्य दिखाने के लिए किस शब्द का प्रयोग किया जाता है ? 
– (a) GRAD  

38. चाल कितने प्रकार का होते हैं ?
उत्तर :- (b) 2 प्रकार का

1. How many types of section formations are there ? write the name. ( 5-10 )
Answer :-
(i) File Formation
(ii) Single File Formation
(iii) Diamond Formation
(iv) Spear-Head Formation
(v) Aero-Head Formation
(vi) Extended Line Formation

2. Write any five methods of estimating distance :- ( 5 )
Answer :-
(i) Unit Method
(ii) Mode of Appearance
(iii) Section Average Method
(iv) Range method
(v) bracketing method
(vi) Howling method

3. Why do things appear ? ( 5 )
Answer :-
If 6 S and 1 M are not used correctly, things appear –
(i) Shape      (ii) Shadow
(iii) Shine    (iv) Surface
(v) Spacing  (vi) Silhouette
& (i) Movement

4. Fill in the blank :- (5)

(i) …………. to use the land and weapons to our advantage is it art ?
Answer :- Fieldcraft

(ii) Foreground …………. yards away ?
Answer :- 300 yards

(iii) When looking for a hill, the distance is …………. Is ?
Answer :- More than expected

(iv) When measuring the angle with the palm open to the ground …………. and clenched fist Measure …………. ?
Answer :- 19 degree and 8 degree

5. Why is the distance visible more than the actual ? ( 5 )
Answer :-
(i) low light
(ii) Sun is in front of the beholder
(iii) Looking through the valley
(iv) the size of the target when smaller than the near object
(v) When the beholder is looking from top to bottom
(vi) Raised ground between the observer and the target

6. The distance is less visible than the original ? ( 10 )

Answer :-
(i) when the sun is behind the beholder
(ii) when the size of the target is greater than that of the near object
(iii) the ground between the observer and the target is buried
(iv) When the observer is looking up from the bottom
(v) having more light

7. What is the procedure for land details ? ( 3 )
Answer :-
(i) Fore Ground
(ii) Middle Ground
(iii) Near Ground

8. Fill in the blanks :- ( 5 )

(i) Cover ………. What is the type ?
Answer – 2

(ii) Moves to ………. Can it be divided into parts ?
Answer – 2

(iii) Chemoflage is such an art by using ………. Achieved it goes ?
Answer :- Concilment

(iv) ………. The human head appears like a point on the yard ?
Answer :- 600 yards

(v) To show the target ………. Hands are used to indicate degrees ?
Answer :- Left handed

9. What are the modes of indicating easy targets ? ( 5 )
Answer :-

To remember this trick, let’s use the word GRAD –
G – Group
R – Range
A – Aid
D – Description

10. Write the meaning of Fire Control Order ? ( 5 )

Answer :-
To remember this trick, let’s use the word GRIT –
(i) G – Group
(ii) R – Range
(iii) I – Indication Of Target
(iv) T – Type Of Fire

11. Write Field Craft and Battle Craft in detail. ( 5 )

Answer :- To get success in the fight it is important to know about FC, by hiding your movements from the enemy, approaching the enemy and camouflaging your body and equipment according to the area in the same way and camouflage in every area. Before Chandi one thing should be kept in mind;

According to the area like –
(i) Taking care of sand in the local area
(ii) of snow in a snowy area
(iii) Grass or green leaves are used in the area where there is a dense forest.

Advantages of BC –
(i) Statement of ground marks
(ii) Field Signal
(iii) Platoon Formation etc.

12. Write True and False :- ( 5 )

(i) There are two types of petrol ?
Answer :- Correct

(ii) In patrolling, walk on a higher ground during the day and on a lower ground during the night ?
Answer :- Correct

(iii) Never try to avoid a fight while coming back from petrol ?
Answer :- Wrong

(iv) At the time of ambush, attack the enemy from the front ?
Answer :- Wrong

(v) The purpose of ambush is to obtain information from the enemy ?
Answer :- Correct

13. Write about different types of petrol :- ( 6)
Answer:- It is of two types –
(a) Reiki Patrol –
(i) Gathering information on enemy position preparation and intentions
(ii) Collecting enemy identification, geographical and technical information
(iii) To collect information about the tendency and nature of the enemy

(b) Protective Patrol –
(i) Preventing enemy patrols from collecting information about their army and territory
(ii) Sending advance notice of the enemy’s arrival and engaging the enemy
(iii) Maintain your right on No Man’s Land

14. What are the types of land ? write their names ? ( 5 )

Answer :- 6 types –
(i) Flat Land
(ii) High Ground
(iii) Low Ground
(iv) Dead Ground
(v) Slopy Ground
(vi) Broken Ground

15. Fill in the blank :- ( 7)

(a) Always look from the ……….. of the cover and not from above it ?
Answer :- From behind

(b) The art of using land and weapons as per their convenience is called ………. ?
Answer :- Field Craft / FC

(c) The basic strategy of infantry is ……….. ?
Answer :- Fire and Move

(d) The eyes and ears of the ………… ?
Answer :- Scout

(e) The method of briquetting is ………. ?
Answer:- Distance Estimation

(f) The two types of cover are ………… and ……… ?
Answer :- Barrier from sight and Barrier from fire

16. Write the methods of giving field signal at night ? ( 5 )
Answer –
(i) With the hand/weapon at the visible place
(ii) by sound in an invisible place
(iii) radio sets, ropes, cables and facilities thereof

17. Fill in the blanks :- ( 5 )

(a) Scout section consists of ………. and ………. ?
Answer :- Eyes and Ears

(b) Patrolling has ………… steps ?
Answer :- 2

(c) The jawans running in front of the section are called ………… ?
Answer :- Scout

(d) The open paw of the hand denotes ………… degree ?
Answer :- 19°

(e) What are the ………… methods of measuring distance ?
Answer :- 6

18. How many types of fire control orders are there ? write the name. ( 5 )
Answer – It is of 4 types –
(i) Opportunity
(ii) of preparation
(iii) Micro Fire
(iv) full fire

19. How many types of Ambush are there ? Write the names of its parties ? ( 5 )
Answer :- Two types –
(i) Opportunity Ambush
(ii) Deliberate / Prepration Ambush
four parties –
(i) Scouts   (ii) Covering
(iii) Stops  (iv) Reserve Party

20. What do you understand by Concealment ? ( 5 )
Answer :- This is the art of hiding from the sight and firing of the enemy with the help of natural scenes and figures. The main purpose of concealment in battle is to attack suddenly or to defend oneself.

21. Fill in the blank :- ( 5 M )

(a) What are the types of section formation ??
Answer :- 6

(b) What are the types of fire orders ?
Answer :- 2

(c) With the help of hand can read ………… degree ?
Answer :- 19°

(d) Can you guess the distance up to ………… by the way of sight ?
Answer :- 600 Yards

(e) The trick for giving a fire order is ………. ?
Answer :- GRIT

22. What are the types of cover ? ( 5 M )

Answer :- Two types –
(i) Cover From View
(ii) Cover From Fire

(i) Cover From View – Those figures which protect from the eyes of the enemy, where the enemy can be kept secretly and can be avoided from his sight. The jawan should use the cover carefully.
For example :- Cover of bush, vegetation or broken ground.

(ii) Cover From Fire – Those figures which protect from the fire and sight of the enemy.
Ex :- wall, big tree etc.

23. What are the principles/methods of field signal ? ( 3 )
Answer :- There are 3 ways –
(i) With Hand
(ii) With Weapons
(iii) With Whistle

24. Write True and False :- ( 5 )

(i) There are total 5 parties of ambush ?
Answer :- Wrong

(ii) Things are not visible due to movement at night ?
Answer :- Correct

(iii) The mine planting party is divided into 8 parts ?
Answer :- Wrong

(iv) Slit trenches are there to avoid air attack ?
Answer :- Correct

(v) The length of the LMG’s fire trench outside is 6 feet ?
Answer :- Correct

25. Write 5 hand signs ? ( 5 )
Answer :-
Following are the hand gestures :-
(i) walk fast      (ii) lie down
(iii) as it were  (iv) proceeding
(v) spread out   (vi) subside
(vii) follow me
(viii) run and walk
(ix) turn back
(x) Enemy is retreating

26. What are the functions of a scout ? ( 5 )

Answer :-
(i) It is imposed on the possible approaching routes of the enemy.
(ii) giving prior notice
(iii) taking initiative
(iv) Using the land properly
(v) Choosing a good firing position
(vi) Knowing about the field signal
(vii) to be a good target
(viii) having a good memory

27. Fill in the blanks :- ( 5 )

(a) The method of making the best use of available land and weapons is called ……… ?
Answer :- Field Craft

(b) The land which is hidden from the eye of the beholder is called ………… ?
Answer :- Dead Ground

(c) Maximum ……….. degree can be measured by hand ?
Answer :- 19°

(d) What are the types of section formation ………. ?
Answer :- 6 types

(e) Petrol is of …………. ( write name )
Answer :- There are 2 types ( Reiki and Protective )

28. Which subjects are included in field craft ? ( 5 )

Answer :-
(i) Judging Distance
(ii) Taking Covers
(iii) Camouflage & Concealment
(iv) Recognition & Indication Of Target
(v) Firing & Movement – Fire & Movement
(vi) Field Signals

29. Write any 5 fundamentals of proper use of cover ? ( 5 )

Answer :-
(i) Where the enemy can be secretly monitored and fire can be fired easily on him
(ii) from where the enemy can be monitored and his fire can be avoided
(iii) where it can be carried forward easily
(iv) Where one can remain in a comfortable position for a long period of time

30. Fill in the blank :- ( 4 )

(a) The basic infantry moves are ………… and ……… ?
– fire and move

(b) ………… degree is measured with open hand ?
– up to 19 degrees

(c) Platoon formations are of …………. Types ?
– three types

(d) The word ………… is used to indicate the goal ?
– GRAD

31. Why do things appear small ? ( 5 )
Answer :-
(i) when the sun is behind the beholder
(ii) when the size of the target is greater than that of the near object
(iii) the ground between the observer and the target is buried
(iv) When the observer is looking up from the bottom
(v) having more light

32. Name the different types of Grounds ? ( 4 )

Answer: – 6 types –
(i) Flat Ground
(ii) High Ground
(iii) Low Ground
(iv) Dead Ground
(v) Slopy Ground
(vi) Broken Ground 

33. What are the factors that make things visible ? ( 5 )
Answer :-
If 6 S and 1 M are not used correctly, things appear as –
(i) Shape       (ii) Shadow
(iii) Shine     (iv) Surface
(v) Spacing   (vi) Silhouette & (i) Movement

34. Write the types of clause formation ? ( 5 )
Answer :-
(i) File Formation
(ii) Single File Formation
(iii) Diamond Formation
(iv) Spear-Head Formation
(v) Aero-Head Formation
(vi) Extended Line Formation

35. Comment short :- ( 6)

(a) Patrolling – The surveillance of an area on foot or on a light vehicle is called patrolling.

(b) Ambush – Ambush is called ambush to attack suddenly by hiding on a moving or stopped enemy unit. The place has to be vacated immediately after ambushing.

(c) Raid – a short sudden attack on the enemy by military ships or planes Or a sudden attack of the police in search of criminals or illegal goods

36. Match :-

(i) forward 			(a) right arm fully raised above the head
(ii) Thumb 			(b) The elbow should be on the right side above the right head
(iii) Enemy is coming 		(c) Salute
(iv) come closer 	  	(d) extend the right arm from behind under the shoulder move forward
(v) understood the signal 	(e) with both hands open, palm inwards

Answer :-
(i) – (d) , (ii) – (a) , (iii) – (e) (iv) – (b) , (v) – (c)

37. State the types of moves :-

Answer :- Two types –
(i) without a weapon
(ii) with weapons

7 Types of Unarmed –
(i) the movement of the monkey
(ii) the speed of the cat
(iii) Movement of the kitten
(iv) Cheetah’s speed
(v) lying on the stomach
(vi) by rolling
(vii) normal speed 

Weapons with 4 types –
(i) the movement of the monkey
(ii) the speed of the cat
(iii) by rolling
(iv) normal speed

38. Who is called Ambush ? ( 3 )

Answer :- A sudden attack on a moving or stationary enemy by hiding is called ambush (ambush). The act of ambush (ambush) involves making a sudden attack and getting out of there immediately. The best method of ambush (ambush) is to confuse the enemy and attack him.

39. State the purpose of power :- ( 3 )
Answer :-
(i) Collecting confidential information
(ii) reducing the number of enemies
(iii) troubling the enemy more and more

40. Write the characteristics of Ambush ? ( 5 )
Answer :-
(i) Surprise
(ii) Maximize use of control fire power
(iii) Simplicity
(iv) firm intention
(v) high standard of education
(vi) Self Defense

41. Explain the Advantages and Disadvantages of Section Formation Drill ? ( 5 )
Answer :-
Advantages –
(i) Mobility easy
(ii) Flexibility easy
(iii) saving time
(iv) easy control commands
(v) Facilitation in completing the task
(vi) more fire power

Disadvantages –
(i) Lack of surprise
(ii) Difficult to adapt to the times
(iii) Decrease in attack plan
(iv) Air Hazard

42. What are the targets of Ambush ? ( 5 )
Answer :-
(i) Vehicles carrying Ammunition
(ii) Cars carrying ration to the next position
(iii) Road or Pool Protection Party
(iv) signal line or repair party
(v) One Way Patrol Party
(vi) Parties going to Water Point
(vii) Parties referred to LP or OP

43. Ambush is used for what purpose ? ( 3 )

Answer :-
(i) To cause maximum damage to enemy soldiers and vehicles
(ii) To get the necessary news
(iii) To harass or intimidate the enemy in such a way that he makes the whole army to reply on the ground for his defense.

44. What do you understand by cover ? ( 3 )
Answer :- Such figures or places where the enemy’s eyes and his fire can be avoided and fire can be easily thrown on the enemy.

45. State the characteristics of a good cover ? ( 3 )

Answer :-
(i) Where the enemy can be secretly monitored and fire can be fired at him
(ii) From where enemy surveillance and fire can be avoided
(iii) from where it can be carried forward easily
(iv) Where it can be kept in a comfortable position for a long time.

46. ​​What is chemophage ? ( 2 )
Answer :- This is the art of hiding by the use of artificial objects ( Man Made ).

47. What is concealment ? ( 2 )
Answer :- This is the art of hiding from the sight and firing of the enemy with the help of natural scenes and figures. The main purpose of concealment in battle is to attack suddenly or to defend oneself.

48. What are the things to keep in mind while doing camouflage and concealment ? ( 5 )

Answer :-
(i) shape
(ii) photo
(iii) mutual distance
(iv) movement
(v) brightness position
(vi) contrast
(vii) sound, noise etc.

49. What is field craft ? ( 5 )

Answer :- Field craft is the art by which we learn to make proper use of the available role at the time of war. With the use of this art, soldiers can deftly defend themselves and attack the enemy effectively. Through field craft, we learn to make full use of all the natural and man-made structures located on the ground and inflict maximum damage on the enemy.

50. What are the main objectives of field craft ? ( 5 )
Answer :- It has 5 main purposes, which is also known as 5F –
(i) find
(ii) Follow
(iii) Fool
(iv) Fix
(v) Fire 

51. What is the importance of fieldcraft ?  ( 5 )
Answer :- If you are proficient in field craft in painting, then only you will be able to move towards the target on the ground and eliminate the enemy.  This art makes you so adept that you will be able to overcome the enemy in any type of land, field, forest, mountain, valley, snow, river, desert etc. Battle to master the battlefield structure and fieldcraft of soldiers.  has a decisive influence on the outcome.

52. What is patrolling ?  ( 3 )
Answer :- Patrolling is the monitoring of an area by walking or roaming on a light vehicle.

53. What is the purpose of patrolling ?  ( 3 )
Answer :- The purpose of patrolling is to get information about the enemy and to protect one’s military unit from enemy patrolling.  At the time of war, information about the number of enemy soldiers, weapons, etc. is of great importance and this information is obtained by patrolling.

54. How to find the target ?  ( 5 )
Answer :-
(i) By choosing Aamrukh
(ii) by dividing it into small pieces
(iii) by ground mark
(iv) By degree ( Using Compass )
(v) by hand

55. What are the factors affecting the section formation ?  ( 3 )

Answer :-
(i) Ground
(ii) Section work
(iii) Requirement of Section Commander’s Control ( Command & Control )
(iv) Need to fire more and more in less time ( Quick Fire Power )

56. How many types of fire orders are there ?  ( 3 )
Answer :- It is of 2 types –
(i) Fire Direction Order
(ii) Fire Control Order  

57. What is the type of fire ?  ( 5 )
Answer :- It is of four types –
(i) Grouping Fire
(ii) Zeroing fire
(iii) Application Fire
(iv) Classification Fire

58. What do you understand by Field Signal ?  ( 5 )
Answer :- During the time of war, instead of giving various signals in the field, instead of speaking, they are done without making any sound or by whistling in the speech of signal birds, mostly by shaking hands in different ways by showing rifles.

It is of 3 types –
(i) With Hand
(ii) With Weapons
(iii) With Whistle

59. Explain the structure of Platoon Formation ?  ( 5 )

Answer :-
(i) One Up Formation – In this formation one section of the platoon moves forward and two sections move backward.  This formation is perfect for moving forward.

(ii) Two Up Formation – In this formation, two sections move forward and one section moves backward, this formation is best for attack.

(iii) Three Up Formation – In this structure all the three sections go together.  This structure is perfect for making big attacks.  It has more firing power.

60. What do you understand by Battle Process ?  ( 3 )
Answer :- There is a method of preparing for war.  Under this, an army commander makes plans, issues orders and prepares a list of combat related tasks.

61. What do you understand by Battle Drill ?  ( 5 )
Answer :- Under the battle drill, the nature of the task assigned to each soldier is told.  To maintain mobility during war, it is divided into 4 groups –

Reiki Group – In this group there is a Platoon Commander and 1 Runner, their job is to do the Reiki of the place.
Order Group – This group consists of three sections Commander and Mortar Commander, Rocket Launcher Commander and Runner.
Fighting Group – This group consists of the remaining personnel of the Platoon Headquarters and the soldiers of all three sections.
Transport Group – This group consists of personnel and soldiers related to military transport.

62. What is the importance of Battle Drill ?  ( 3 )
Answer :-
(i) Information Appreciation
(ii) Fire & Movement
(iii) Verbal Orders

63. What is the principle of fire and movement ?  ( 5 )

Answer :-
Principle of firing –
(i) One Bullet, One Enemy
(ii) Aim at the head of the enemy
(iii) Minimum interval between covering fire and attack

Movement Theory –
(i) walk in organized group
(ii) build a proper structure
(iii) While walking, keep only one foot on the ground at a time

64. Into how many parts is the section battle drill divided ?  ( 5 )
Answer :- It is divided into 4 parts –
(i) to act when fired by the enemy
(ii) to attack
(iii) Detecting and neutralizing the enemy
(iv) Reconstitution of the section

65. What do you understand by field defense ?  ( 5 )
Answer :- Its main purpose is to organize soldiers and weapons in such a way that the enemy’s activity and attack can be effectively eliminated or controlled.
It is of two types :-
(i) Quick Defense
(ii) Deliberate Defense

66. Who is called Aamrukh ?  ( 2 )
Answer :- The fake / imaginary line that divides the area of ​​​​the given responsibility into approximately 2 equal parts.

67. Tell me how to choose Aamrukh ?  ( 3 )
Answer :-
Such thing is chosen as the face which –
(i) be far
(ii) be famous
(iii) be forced to walk

68. What are the three main stages of patrolling ?  ( 3 )
Answer :-
(i) Preparation
(ii) Conduct
(iii) Debriefing

69. What is Fire Control Order ?  ( 5 )

Answer :- For proper use of the power of fire, it is necessary to use the fire control order.  It is the responsibility of the Fire Unit Commander to issue fire control orders and correct fire orders.  But these orders should be taught to all the soldiers so that :-
(i) On the casualty of the Fire Unit Commander, any jawan may serve in his place.
(ii) If there is a shortage of Group Commander, then the jawans will have to do this duty.
(iii) To take advantage of the Fire Control Order, the correct description of targets and the training to identify them should be of a very high standard.

70. What is a fire Unit ?  ( 2 )
Answer :  Fire unit is an armed group that fires on the orders of a commander.  There is usually a group of sections.

71. Who is the Fire Unit Commander ?  ( 2 )
Answer :- This is the commander who gives orders to fire to the fire unit and controls its fire.

72. What is Fire Direction Order ?  ( 3 )
Answer :- This is the order that the fire unit commander receives from the commander above him.  In these orders, it is told that at what time, with which weapon and how much fire should be fired.  The Section Commander gets the Fire Direction Order from his Platoon Commander.

73. What is a Fire Control Order ?  ( 2 )
Answer :- It is the order which a fire unit commander gives to the fire unit to get the fire started and to control it.

74. What is arc of fire ?  ( 2 )
Answer :- This is the area within which the responsibility of destroying the target is given to a unit.  This area is indicated by the left and right boundaries.

75. What are the charges of Fire Control Order ?  ( 2 )
Answer :-
(i) Fire always to kill the enemy, to frighten him
(ii) Care should be taken to save the ammunition
(iii) Special care should be taken of fire discipline.

76. How to give Fire Control Order ?  ( 3 )
Answer :-
(i) The order should be given clearly and in short words.
(ii) the sound is loud enough to be easily heard
(iii) should be given as a command
(iv) Hukum should be given intermittently so that the jawans can follow it along with attention.

77. What do you understand by Battle Process, what are its important things ?  ( 5 )
Answer :- All the actions of the commander and the deployment of troops at least through spades and quickly is called battle procedure. This is a drill from getting the warning order till the deployment in the Forming Up Place ( FUP ).
Its essentials –
(i) The commander gets the big news and the necessary help quickly so that he can decide the next course of action
(ii) The commander must be in sync with his junior and senior commander
(iii) The younger commander should be close to the commander above and the head quarters and sub-units should be divided into such groups that the issuance of orders and the conduct of deployment can be done without delay.

78. What do you understand by ORF ?  ( 3 )
Answer :-
O ( Objective ) :- The land required to be occupied
R ( Route ) :- The way to reach the objective should be covered as far as possible and the obstruction should be less.
F ( Fire Plan ) :- Supporting weapons should be installed in such a way that they can get maximum damage and objective fire support to the attacking troops.

79. What is Field of Fire ?  ( 2 )
Answer :- The area is called that on which effective fire of any weapon can be fired in any direction.

80. What do you understand by Saxon Formation ?  ( 5 )
Answer :- It is very important to have the knowledge of making different types of section formations in order to have maximum fire on enemy forces at the time of war, to identify the direction of their firing and to keep complete control over their section while defending them.  During the day, there should be a distance of 15 to 25 yards between the soldiers, along with this, the soldiers should not walk in a straight line but walk in a zigzag line.

81. What is the main principle of camouflage and concealment ?  ( 5 )
Answer :-
(i) Changing the appearance of uniforms, weapons and vehicles by erasing the luster and outlines
(ii) Using shadow
(iii) avoiding the horizon line
(iv) walking slowly
(v) matching the color of the surrounding land
(vi) not to act unnecessarily
(vii) Do not let your shadow fall in the water
(viii) To keep on changing the items of conciliation according to the time and circumstances


